Date: 2025-10-15
URL: https://d1io3yog0oux5.cloudfront.net/_50f8b96ee584a6ed14c53e90df4366a9/bankofamerica/db/775/10407/webcast_transcript/2025-10-15+BAC+3Q+Earnings+Call_ADA.pdf](https://d1io3yog0oux5.cloudfront.net/_50f8b96ee584a6ed14c53e90df4366a9/bankofamerica/db/775/10407/webcast_transcript/2025-10-15+BAC+3Q+Earnings+Call_ADA.pdf

Good morning. Thank you. Thank you for joining us to review our third quarter results. Our earnings release
documents are available on the Investor Relations section of the bankofamerica.com website. Those
documents include the earnings presentation that we'll make reference to during the call.
Brian Moynihan will make some brief comments before turning the call over to Alastair Borthwick, our CFO,
to discuss more of the details in the quarter. Let me just remind you that we may make forward-looking
statements and refer to non-GAAP financial measures during the call. The forward-looking statements are
based on management's current expectations and assumptions and those are subject to risks and
uncertainties laid out.
Factors that may cause our actual results to materially differ from expectations are detailed in the earnings
material and available in the SEC filings on the website. Information about non-GAAP financial measures,
including reconciliations to U.S. GAAP, can also be found in our earnings materials and are also available on
the website. With that, Brian, over to you.
Thank you, Lee, and good morning, and thank you, all, for joining us. Bank of America delivered a strong
third quarter with good growth both in the top-line revenue and bottom-line EPS, all driven by strong
operating leverage. Our ROTCE improved to 15.4%. This quarter's results provide good momentum as we
finish 2025 and head into 2026. We have been demonstrating consistent organic growth for many quarters.
This quarter's results highlight the continued organic strength of our world-class deposit and lending
capabilities. Our results also underscore the benefits of a diversified business model with top-tier position,
not only in lending and deposits, but also across the market-driven businesses in Wealth Management,
Global Markets, and Global Banking. 
Before I turn over to Alastair, I'm going to hit a few highlights here. We reported revenue of $28 billion, up
11% year-over-year. EPS was $1.06, up 31% year-over-year. We drove operating leverage of 560 basis
points in the quarter. The efficiency ratio fell below 62%. The return on assets reached 98 basis points. And
during the quarter, we returned to our shareholders $7.4 billion through dividends and share repurchases.
Net interest income on an FTE basis reached a record $15.4 billion. That was supported by strong
commercial loan and deposit growth, along with continued balance sheet positioning. Investment banking
fees exceeded $2 billion, up 43% year-over-year. Our team in Sales & Trading grew revenue 8%, marking
our 14th consecutive quarter of year-over-year revenue growth. Our asset management fees increased 12%
compared to last year.
All the business segments contribute to earnings improvement and had growth in earnings. 2 stood out this
quarter.
Our Consumer Banking team delivered $3.4 billion in after-tax earnings, up 28% year-over-year, with 600
basis points of operating leverage. This reflects strong revenue growth and disciplined expense
management. This business is driven off the core operating accounts of our consumer customers, and we
gained more than this quarter. These accounts have strong balances per account, the customers give us
great customer scores, and we operate them at lower cost with more primacy in the account and lower
attrition compared to anyone in the industry. That is a winning combination.
Our Global Wealth and Investment Management teams posted net income of nearly $1.3 billion, up 19%.
That was driven by the strong Merrill and Private Bank advisor productivity and concomitant, continued
growth in fee-based assets. Spending in this business was particularly strong with $12 billion in loan growth
in this quarter. GWIM also opened another 32,000 banking accounts and grew deposits $3 billion from
quarter 2.
As we look ahead, we believe this quarter's performance continues to reflect the impact of the investments
we have made on a continuous basis for many years in technology, talent and client experience. These
continue to translate into strong financial results. We have been growing loans with the right risk and
deposits as we continue to gain market share through organic growth. That translated into continuous NII
improvements and complement our growth in our fee-based businesses this quarter.
I also, as usual, will commend you to look at the digital slides in the appendix on Slides 20, 22, and 24. They
show the continued progression across all the businesses of Applied Technology with lots of discussions
going on about technology and AI and know the things we give you the stats. What you'll see in these slides
is the customer-facing activities of Erica, for example. There are many other applications of AI going on in
this company, but this one has been handling successful interactions for years with scale and that
application has now been applied across other businesses and even across our employee base.
So we're confident in our trajectory of our results, and we are excited about the opportunities ahead. We
look forward to talking to you at Investor Day in November. I'm going to turn it over to Alastair to walk
through the financials in more detail.
Thank you, Brian. And I'm going to start with Slide 3 to begin our discussion. And I just have 3 things on the
income statement that I want to add to Brian's comments.
First, we're pleased with the continued demonstration of expense discipline across our businesses. So in the
third quarter, we delivered 11% year-over-year revenue growth significantly outpacing 5% expense growth
and resulting in that strong 6% operating leverage. Of the $28.2 billion in total revenue, an aggregated
amount of $11.3 billion came from our sales & trading, investment banking, and asset management fees, 3
of our more highly compensable market-facing areas. So those areas grew 15% year-over-year in the
aggregate, and we're excited to continue our investments given their strategic importance and attractive
returns. When coupled with investment spending and inflation, this revenue growth helps frame the 5%
expense growth even better. Importantly, expense growth versus the second quarter was held under 1%, 
while those same compensable revenue streams grew 8% sequentially, further reinforcing our ability to
scale efficiently and invest where it matters most.
Second, provision expense improved this quarter with net charge-offs declining 10%, and we had a modest
reserve release as a result of both credit card and commercial real estate improvement. The strong asset
quality reflects the continued strength of our credit portfolio, years of disciplined risk management and
higher growth of the portfolio than other banks with good credit results.
Lastly, our average diluted share count declined by 24 million shares from the second quarter. And this
quarter included the dilution we've highlighted before in our filings, and that comes from our 2008 issued
convertible preferred Series L stock.
On Slide 4, you'll note the various earnings highlights Brian and I have talked about. I don't have much to
add here and would instead spend just a moment on our continued organic growth, which is powering our
loan and deposit activity.
We added new clients, and we deepened relationships with existing clients and across consumer, wealth,
commercial and institutional businesses, our teams are winning in the marketplace by putting our clients
first. As always, we highlight the continued organic growth across each of our businesses driven by client
engagement, disciplined execution and strategic investment. And you can see the results there on Slide 5.
Consumer Banking continued to show strong momentum. We grew another 212,000 net new checking
accounts, extending our string of consecutive growth to 27 quarters. This includes the fourth consecutive
quarter of increased average noninterest-bearing deposits. And those are important because they are the
primary operating account for a relationship and they're quite beneficial as a low-cost funding source.
Additionally, card, home, and auto loan balances grew year-over-year, reflecting healthy consumer demand,
and we believe those further cement the relationship beyond just the operating account alone. In small
business, we continued our strength of lending growth, and we remain the #1 leading provider of credit to
small business in the United States.
Global Wealth and Investment Management saw client balances climbed to more than $4.6 trillion driven by
strong AUM flows of $84 billion in the past year, strong loan originations, and market appreciation. Our
advisors continue to deliver comprehensive solutions to help clients achieve their financial goals.
In Global Banking, we saw a nice pickup in client activity in investment banking, resulting in market share
gains, leadership rankings across many products and the highest non-pandemic fee quarter in our firm's
history. Commercial client activity showed a continuation in the demand for loans and cash management
needs as treasury service fees increased 12% year-over-year alongside deposit growth of 15%.
Global Markets continued to deliver on their string of year-over-year revenue growth and also continue to
grow loans from healthy demand of our clients.
Let's transfer to a discussion of the balance sheet using Slide 6, where you can see total assets ended the
quarter at $3.4 trillion. That's down $38 billion from the second quarter as good loan growth was offset by
lower Global Markets assets and wholesale funding reductions as part of our plan to continue to tighten the
balance sheet. Importantly, this balance sheet tightening will continue to benefit the net interest yield, NIY.
Deposits ended just over $2 trillion and were up $72 million from the year ago period, with growth in both
interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing deposits.
Average Global Liquidity Sources of $961 billion remains strong, and shareholders' equity of $304 billion
was up $4.6 billion from last quarter, as we issued $2.5 billion of preferred stock. Otherwise, a $2 billion
increase in tangible common equity to $208 billion included a modest capital build, as net income was
slightly more than capital distributions, and we saw some improvement in AOCI. We returned $7.4 billion of
capital back to shareholders with $2.1 billion in common dividends paid and $5.3 billion of shares
repurchased. Tangible book value per share of $28.39 in rose 8% from the third quarter of '24. Looking at
regulatory capital, our CET1 level increased modestly to $203 billion, while the risk-weighted assets were 
relatively flat and that drove our CET1 ratio higher to 11.6%. This is well above our October 1, 10%
regulatory minimum. Our Supplemental Leverage Ratio was 5.8% versus a minimum requirement of 5%,
which leaves capacity for balance sheet growth, and our $473 billion of Total Loss Absorbing Capital means
our TLAC ratio remains comfortably above our requirements.
On Slide 7, we show a 10-quarter trend of average deposits to illustrate the extension of consecutive
growth across those periods. Average deposits were up $71 billion or 3.7% from the third quarter of '24.
Average consumer deposits were up 1% year-over-year, while Global Banking deposits grew 15% compared
to a year ago. Our global capabilities, digital solutions and relationship managers continue to win clients in
the marketplace. In addition, we remain disciplined on pricing to achieve that growth. Overall rate paid on
total deposits declined 32 basis points year-over-year, reflecting both lower rates and disciplined actions in
our Global Banking and Wealth Management businesses.
Rate paid on the roughly $950 billion of Consumer deposits remained low at 58 basis points in Q3, driven by
the operating nature of that account and client base. Compared to the second quarter, total deposit rate
paid rose 2 basis points due to mix shift into interest-bearing, and we expect improvement next quarter
driven by repricing after the Fed funds rate cut in late September.
Let's turn to loans by looking at average balances on Slide 8. You can see loan balances in Q3 of $1.15
trillion improved 9% year-over-year driven by 13% commercial loan growth. Consumer loans grew at a
slower pace and importantly, we're up across every loan type. For the second consecutive quarter, every
business segment recorded higher average loans on both a year-over-year basis and on a linked-quarter
basis. Focusing on commercial loans in global markets, we continue to take advantage of the strong
financing demand in the marketplace from institutional borrowers, where we lend against diverse collateral
pools. Small business is benefiting from our newly combined local market-based coverage model for small
business and business banking, and that's creating more capacity for client expansion. And lastly, note the
9% improvement in Wealth Management as affluent clients borrowed for investments in assets like sports
and arts and businesses.
So all of that balance sheet activity across deposits and loans results in net interest income. And let's turn
our focus to NII on Slide 9. On a GAAP non-fully taxable equivalent basis, NII in Q3 was $15.2 billion. On a
fully taxable equivalent basis, NII was a little less than $15.4 billion and as I said earlier, that's up 9% from
the third quarter of '24. NII grew $1.3 billion year-over-year and $572 million on an FTE basis over the
second quarter driven by higher loan and deposit balances and benefits from fixed rate asset repricing. And
versus Q2, we also gained an extra day of interest. The net interest yield improved 7 basis points from the
second quarter, reflecting the growth in NII, while the earning asset balance modestly declined as loan
growth replaced lower-yielding securities and Global Markets balances declined modestly. And as I said, we
reduced expensive wholesale funding and cash.
Regarding interest rate sensitivity, on a dynamic deposit basis, we provide a 12-month change in NII for an
instantaneous shift in the curve. So again, that means interest rates would have to instantaneously move
another 100 basis points lower than the expected cuts that are already contemplated in the curve. So if you
think about that, 100 basis points below what the curve implies more simply put, that would mean, for
instance, on the short end, the July Fed Funds rate next year will be getting down to 2.25%. So on that
basis, a 100-basis point decline would decrease NII over the next 12 months by $2.2 billion. And if rates
went up 100 basis points, NII would benefit approximately $1 billion.
With regard to a forward view of NII, let me give you a few thoughts. In January and again in April, we
provided our expectation that we could exit Q4 of 2025 and with NII on a fully taxable equivalent basis on
range of $15.5 million to $15.7 billion. We also noted our expectation for that growth to accelerate in the
second half of 2025. Despite all the uncertainties we've experienced around tariffs and rates, we've seen
good performance against our expectations. And even with the third quarter late quarter interest rate cut,
and with the curve anticipating 2 more cuts in October and December, we believe fourth quarter NII will be 
in the higher end of that range of expectations. So think of that as being $15.6 billion plus on a fully taxable
equivalent basis. And that would represent approximately 8% growth from the fourth quarter of '24.
Thinking a bit more generally, we just note for the full year of 2026, our expectations about the drivers of
growth are largely aligned with 2025 performance. We expect good core NII performance driven by core
loan and deposit growth a little bit above GDP, which will additionally benefit from sizable fixed-rate asset
repricing. And in 2026, we expect to see roughly $10 billion to $15 billion in combined quarterly mortgagebacked securities and mortgage loans. Those will roll off, and they'll be replaced with new assets at 150 to
200 basis points higher yield. That should result in full year NII growth somewhat similar to 2025
performance over 2024. So think of that as something like 5% to 7% growth.
Okay. Let's turn to expense, and we'll use Slide 10 for the discussion. First, I just want to highlight the
strong operating leverage, which we expect again in Q4. We reported $17.3 billion in expense this quarter
and that was up modestly compared to the second quarter and up 5% year-over-year. As I noted earlier, the
year-over-year increase was primarily driven by incentives tied to growth, especially in our market-facing
businesses, as well as ongoing investments across the enterprise. Looking ahead to Q4, we expect expenses
to remain roughly in line with Q3.
As you know, headcount is the key driver of expense from compensation and benefits to occupancy costs
and technology. And we manage this closely not just in total numbers, but also an organizational structure,
ensuring we're striking the right balance of managers and teams. And the good news is we continue to
manage headcount well. So looking at the past 3 years, we've been able to lower our headcount from a peak
of 217,000 to 213,000 now. And more recently, since the third quarter of last year, we're down 500, which
includes the addition last quarter of nearly 2,000-plus college grads, and it's this disciplined approach that
supports both efficiency and growth. So let's now move to credit and turn to Slide 11.
And you can see asset quality remains sound with improvements in several key indicators. Net charge-offs
were $1.4 billion, down about 10% from the second quarter, with the improvement split pretty evenly
between credit card and commercial real estate. The total net charge-off ratio this quarter was 47 basis
points, down 8 basis points from Q2. Q3 provision expense was $1.3 billion and mostly matched net chargeoffs. We had a modest reserve release associated with improved outlooks for both credit card and
commercial real estate.
Focusing on total net charge-offs again and looking forward, in the near term, we would not expect much
change in total net charge-offs given the steady consumer delinquency trends, stability of C&I and
reductions in CRE exposures.
On Slide 12, in addition to the improvement in consumer losses, note the reductions in both reservable
criticized and nonperforming loan metrics in commercial portfolios. Nonperforming loans are down 19%
from Q2, and reservable criticized exposure in commercial real estate is now down nearly 25% from the
third quarter of '24 as we dealt with the more problematic exposures across the year.
Let's turn to the performance across our lines of business, beginning with Consumer Banking on Slide 13.
Consumer Banking delivered strong results, generating $11.2 billion in revenue, up 7% year-over-year and
$3.4 billion in net income or 28% growth. Return on allocated capital rose to 31% -- these results reflect the
value of our deposit franchise, underscoring both the breadth of our platform and the success of our organic
growth strategy and digital banking capabilities. Innovations such as family banking, our high-value cashback
credit cards, and our industry-leading preferred rewards program are delivering differentiated value to
clients and value we believe is unmatched elsewhere. This client value proposition, combined with
disciplined pricing helped drive a 9% year-over-year increase in net interest income. Another strong
highlight this quarter was expense management, which enabled us to deliver more than 600 basis points of
operating leverage. Continued innovation and the deployment of advanced technology and tools helped us
to hold expense growth to just 1% year-over-year, while revenue grew significantly. As a result, our
efficiency ratio improved, falling below 50% for the quarter. We continue to invest in high tech, which drove
higher digital engagement, and we continue to invest in high touch. We continued our march into new
markets, filled out more of previously expanded markets and supported our brand in those communities. As
an example, we just opened 4 new financial centers in Idaho over the past 6 months, expanding our
presence and complementing our existing Merrill team in the local market to better serve clients in that
region. Consumer investment balances grew 17% to $580 billion, supported by market appreciation and $19
billion in full year client flows. Third quarter average balance per new account of $110,000 is up 6% from
last year. And the investment platform serves as a great catch basin for first-time investors and for more
affluent investors looking to manage some element of their own money. As mentioned earlier, consumer net
charge-offs improved on a linked-quarter basis following a decline in delinquencies. The largest component
of consumer losses is credit card, and our loss rate decreased from 3.82% to 3.46% linked quarter. This
contributed to an improved risk-adjusted margin on credit card approaching 7.5%. Finally, as shown on
appendix Slide 20, strong digital adoption and Erica engagement continues and customer experience scores
remain elevated, reflecting the impact of our ongoing investments in digital capabilities.
Turning to Wealth Management on Slide 14. The business delivered a strong quarter, marked by improved
profitability. Net income grew 19% year-over-year to nearly $1.3 billion, driven by new household growth,
strong AUM flows, loan growth, and disciplined expense management that produced meaningful operating
leverage and a 26% return on allocated capital. We achieved 300 basis points of operating leverage, which
contributed to a 27% pretax margin, an improvement of over 200 basis points. Together, Merrill and the
Private Bank managed $4.6 trillion in client balances and continue to generate organic growth with $84
billion in AUM flows over the past year. This reflects a healthy mix of new client assets and existing clients
putting more capital to work. During this past quarter, Merrill and the Private Bank added 5,400 net new
relationships with the average size of new relationships continuing to grow across both businesses. And
importantly, we're not just adding relationships, we're deepening the ones we enjoy already. And reflecting
the strength of our integrated model and our product offering, the percentage of clients with banking
products continue to rise, and it's now at 63%. In the third quarter, GWIM reported record revenue of $6.3
billion, up 10% year-over-year, led by a 12% increase in asset management fees. Loan growth remained
strong, and we saw a notable pickup in custom lending with both volume and loan size increasing, and that
drove a 9% year-over-year increase in average loans. Finally, I'd highlight the continued digital momentum
as shown on Slide 22. New accounts are increasingly being opened digitally, underscoring the effectiveness
of our digital investments and the evolving preferences of our clients.
On Slide 15, you see the results for Global Banking, which benefited from improved investment banking
activity, significant deposit growth and solid loan performance. In Q3, Global Banking delivered net income
of $2.1 billion, up 12% year-over-year, supported by 500 basis points of operating leverage and a 17%
return on allocated capital. The standout driver of performance was a 43% year-over-year increase in firmwide investment banking fees, which fueled 7% overall revenue growth. Firm-wide investment banking fees
rose across the solution set. Advisory was up 51%, debt underwriting increased 42%, and equity
underwriting grew 34%. We maintained our #3 position year-to-date, and we also gained market share
during the quarter. Notably, we participated in several of the industry's largest transactions, a clear
testament to the value clients place on our financial advice and solutions. Noninterest expense grew
compared to last year as we continue to invest in the future. And average deposits grew 15% year-overyear, contributing to a 6% increase in global transaction services revenue. And importantly, disciplined
pricing, coupled with lower rates led to a 47-basis point decline in rate paid compared to a year ago.
Switching to Global Markets on Slide 16. I'll focus my comments on results, excluding DVA, as we typically
do. As Brian mentioned, we extended our streak of strong revenue and earnings performance and once
again achieved a solid 13% return on allocated capital. In the third quarter, Global Markets generated net
income of $1.6 billion, up modestly year-over-year and consistent with the prior quarter. Revenue, excluding
DVA, grew 10% year-over-year, driven by strong sales and trading performance and the benefit of higher
investment banking revenue shared with Global Banking. Focusing on Sales & Trading, revenue ex DVA rose
8% year-over-year to $5.3 billion. FICC revenue grew 5%, driven by improved performance in credit
products. Equities trading led the improvement with 14% revenue growth, supported by increased financing
activity in Asia. Expense growth year-over-year reflects both the revenue increase and higher trading-
related costs in certain Asian markets, and those costs are passed through to clients and therefore, appear
in both the revenue line and the expense line. As noted earlier, we continue to benefit from lending
opportunities tied to highly collateralized pools of high-quality assets and clients value our expertise and the
liquidity we provide in delivering these solutions.
On Slide 17, All Other shows a loss of $6 million in the third quarter with very little to talk about here. Our
third quarter effective tax rate was 10.4%. And excluding the tax credits related to investments in
renewable energy and affordable housing and a small number -- a small amount of discrete items, the
effective tax rate would have been much closer to a normal corporate tax rate at approximately 23%. So
thank you. And with that, we'll jump into the Q&A.