Date: 2025-10-28
URL: https://invest.bnpparibas/en/document/third-quarter-2025-results-transcript
Name: BNP Paribas
Quarter: 2025, Q3

Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before we move on to the quarter's results, I would
like to just take a moment to share some context related to the decision issued by the civil court in
the US case and how we see things moving forward. So, this morning, first, we made a public
statement which explained our position on this matter. This verdict is in connection with very old facts
relating to banking services that BNP Paribas provided more than 15 years ago. We are highly
confident that our planned appeal will demonstrate that this judgement was incorrect. US law has
allowed, and the court has decided to apply Swiss law to this case, and evidence of such Swiss law has
not been allowed to be presented. Misapplication of Swiss law has been confirmed by the Swiss
government itself. The applicable laws don't lead to liability or causation in this case.
The banking services that the bank provided didn't cause plaintiffs prejudice, and no evidence has
been brought to prove that it did. Because the verdict is fundamentally flawed, the bank will pursue
its appeal and is confident that the verdict will ultimately be overturned. The appeal case will be
reviewed by a panel of three professional judges.
Now, we are aware that this case has prompted some speculation about the precedent it might set.
So let me be very clear on this point: the damages awarded were specific to three individuals.
Extrapolation is not permitted. The court has very clearly indicated that any future claims will be
assessed on an individual basis. So, given the ongoing nature of the litigation, we will not be
commenting further on this topic today.
BNP Paribas once again is confident in its legal arguments and that the verdict will be overturned on
appeal. We look forward to focusing our discussion today on this quarter's results. 
So, if we move on to slide four, our third quarter results are solid and allow us to confirm our target
of over €12.2 billion of net profit for 2025. Our revenues are up 5.3% this quarter. Revenues of our
operating divisions, excluding AXA IM, are up 3.5% and a strong 4.9% at constant exchange rates. CIB
revenues posted another record year with 4.5% growth, +7.7% at constant exchange rates, driven by
global markets and security services.
Global banking was resilient despite a more challenging context than last year. CPBS revenues have
accelerated and are up 3.1% thanks to the strong performance of our eurozone commercial banks, 
with acceleration in net interest income up 4.5% and an improvement in specialised businesses.
Personal Finance is delivering on the strategic plan we detailed in June, and Arval’s organic growth is
an elevated 9.3%.
Finally, IPS consolidated AXA IM for the first time, and I will comment on this later. IPS recorded 2.9%
organic revenue growth with a robust performance for Wealth Management, Insurance, and Asset
Management, although mitigated somewhat by Real Estate and IPS invest.
We remain committed to cost control, and we have already implemented most of our targeted €600
million cost savings measures for this year. This results in a +2.0 pts jaws effect for operating divisions
excluding AXA IM. At 39 bps, our cost of risk remains within our guidance of less than 40 bps, despite
a more challenging environment. Lars will elaborate on this later. All in all, our net profit was up 6.1%,
meaning we are on track to achieve our target of more than €12.2 billion euros this year.
Moving on to our CET1 ratio at a very solid 12.5%. We have fully absorbed the impact of the AXA IM
acquisition of 35 bps. This strong quarterly performance, which Lars will elaborate on shortly, enables
us to deliver beyond our pre-FRTB target of 12.3%. Let me pause briefly on this point. We are now
concluding a four-year regulatory and supervisory cycle, characterised by the finalisation of Basel and
significant model updates, a cycle which has been particularly heavy for BNP Paribas. This cycle has
represented around 160 basis points, or €12 billion, equivalent to 3 billion per year. We are now
entering a new cycle where RWA growth will primarily be driven by organic momentum, estimated at
less than 2% per year based on recent historical trends. This is an important and positive message, as
it naturally opens up new perspectives in terms of capital generation. 
Moving to slide five. Our third quarter performance demonstrates acceleration across our operating
division as well as the first-time integration of AXA IM. Despite a particularly high FX impact this
quarter, our operating divisions generated two percentage points jaws effect, excluding AXA IM, and
posted an increase of profit before tax of 7.5%. The third quarter reaffirms our confidence that the
growth trajectory we embarked on is delivering. 
Moving now to slide six. First, our scaled-up CIB platform is a strong engine of growth, reaching
excellent levels of efficiency and profitability, as illustrated by its RoNE of 22.2%. We expect it to
continue gaining market share while maintaining its proven capital discipline.
Second, IPS already benefits from a high RoNE, 23.7%, which is expected to improve even further. We
also maintain that IPS is set to reach 20% of the Group's pre-tax profit in the coming years. We are
creating a European leader in asset management at the core of our integrated model. The impact of
the AXA IM acquisition will be substantial. It will add more than 50 basis points to our Group return
on tangible equity as early as 2028; and I will come back to this in a few minutes. 
Beyond Asset Management, we are developing our European Wealth Management platform, and IPS
will also benefit from both external and organic growth at BNP Paribas Cardif as well as from its
strategic partnerships.
Finally, CPBS. The eurozone commercial banks are starting to benefit from a supportive interest rate
environment, as evidenced by this quarter's performance, and we are improving the profitability of
each business line where needed. Today, we are announcing a Deep Dive in the first half of 2026 to
present the financial trajectory of CPBB in Belgium. We intend to improve the RoNE from 13% in 2024
to 20% in 2028, and 23% in 2030. Together with the plans we have already presented for CPBF and
Personal Finance, this means we will improve profitability from 10% RoNE to about 18% on a third of
the Group’s RWAs, or two thirds of CPBS’ RWAs.
BNP Paribas Bank Polska will also host a capital markets day on the 11th of December. The plan that is
coming to an end this year enabled us to implement BNP Paribas’ model in Poland, and the new 2030
plan will bring Bank Polska’s profitability to the best standards of Polish banks.
At Arval, the strong organic growth, +9.3% in third quarter 2025, will no longer suffer from the baseeffect linked to used car prices.
Overall, we will raise Group return on tangible equity to 13% as early as 2028 and reach a core equity
tier one of 12.5% post-FRTB in 2027. This marks the first two steps in the rollout of the future 2027-
2030 plan. Let me now outline on slide seven the significant positive impact of the AXA IM acquisition on our
financial trajectory. We expect to generate €550 million of revenues and cost synergies by 2029.
Thanks to AXA IM, IPS will see its contribution to Group earnings rise to about 20% in the mid-term,
and we expect our return on tangible equity to see an improvement of more than 50 basis points from
this acquisition at Group level. We expect, as well, our return on the €2.8 billion of invested capital to
reach 18% in 2028 and 22% in 2029. This is post-tax. This is equivalent to more than €600 million of
additional net earnings. We reaffirm on slide eight our 2026 trajectory leading to an acceleration in shareholder return. I will
now hand over to Sandro Pierri, CEO of BNP Paribas Asset Management, to discuss the AXA IM project. Thank you, Jean-Laurent, and good afternoon to everyone. Maybe just a quick intro. I'm Sandro Pierri.
I've been the CEO of BNP Paribas Asset Management since September 21, but I spent all of my career,
which is now 35 years, in asset management, before joining BNPP. I've been 13 years at Pioneer
Investments, where the last three years I've been the CEO.So, as we approach the AXA IM integration – and I think we can go to slide ten – it's very important
because this acquisition enables us to reach scale in Asset Management, notably in long-term savings.
It strengthens the growth momentum of our IPS franchise but also gives us the critical mass and
ambition to become a leading player. We will be, in fact, the third-largest European asset manager
with €1.6 trillion of AUM. And, if we focus on long-term savings, we are the leader in European longterm savings with €850 billion AUM. We’ll also be the leader in alternative assets in Europe by a
significant margin, with €300 billion of AUM, which we believe is going to be a very powerful
differentiating factor offering significant growth potential underpinned by our highly skilled and
renowned teams.
Clearly, the new scope of our asset management platform, combined with the strength of our
integrated model, will unlock significant synergies and operational efficiencies. By the end of 2029, as
Jean-Laurent has indicated, we expect 550 million of profit before taxes from revenue and cost
synergies across the entire Group, and AXA IM is clearly a catalyst for our long-term growth ambitions,
bringing many tangible benefits.
First, we will rely more strongly on internal capabilities and services leveraging our internal expertise.
A good example would be the CIB security services. Secondly, we'll capitalise on the development of
new partnerships with insurers and pension funds. Thirdly, the acceleration of cross-selling within the
Group business. Fourth, the expansion of the Group originate-to-distribute model, which will connect
our asset manager with asset origination business within CIB and CPBS. And finally, the strong
acceleration of our alternative asset distribution, both internally and externally. Now, if we move on to the next slide, which is slide 11. These transactions are not only about scale,
but it's clearly about growth. We believe we are very well positioned to capture growth opportunities
in asset management, thanks to a number of distinctive competitive advantages. First, we have an
unmatched breadth of offering in Europe at scale from ETF, money market, active, medium, long-term
and alternative. The second element is that our Group-integrated model provides exclusive access to
permanent capital with the partnership we also have with Cardif, origination in partnership with our
CIB franchise, and strong distribution capabilities, CPBS, and Wealth. So, the ability to leverage our
one bank model is clearly a key differentiating feature.
From a business perspective, the combined AUM seems to be very balanced, as you can see in one of
these charts, both across asset classes but also across distribution network with both AXA and BNP
Paribas channel, but also external distribution and external institutional clients, and also a very strong
footprint with our joint ventures, mostly in Asia.
And lastly, in terms of competitive advantages, we need to flag our leading position in sustainability,
which will contribute to long-term investment performance and will also help to better meet client
expectations. So, if we go to the next slide. Once we have elaborated on the key distinctive competitive advantages,
we laid down a plan which we think is very clear, and we have a commitment to executing as fast as
we can. And the strategy is, in a way, quite simple. On one side, we want to maximise the potential of
the two investment platforms: the alternative one and the liquid. In alternative assets, our growth
potential builds on a solid and very consistent track record on the size of our blockbuster funds, a full
range in coverage, which spans from real estate, alternative credit infrastructure, private equity, which
also includes secondary markets, and also on the prerequisite of having a full alignment of interest
between AXA Cardif and third party.
On the liquid side, the combination of scale, strong performance culture and results in active strategy,
both equity and fixed income, as well as the renewed ambitions for our ETF platform, which year to
date has been the fastest-growing player in Europe on a relative basis, reaffirms our confidence that
we are very well equipped to deliver on our growth ambitions.
We have a very clear client focus to ensure that we provide the best-in-class products and services.
So, the strategy then from a distribution perspective is really focussed on institutional, and retail and
wealth. As far as institutional clients are concerned, our goal is to be the go-to platform for insurers
and pension funds, leveraging on our strategic partnership with AXA and BNP Paribas Cardif.
In Retail and Wealth Management, we are unlocking the potential of alternatives, the so-called
democratisation of private assets. And we also aim to expand distribution partnership through
innovative digital solutions. So that's as much as I can share at this stage on a very exciting project,
and I look forward to seeing you at our Deep Dive in the first half of 2026, where we'll share more on
our strategy and unique positioning among European asset managers to offer solutions across the full
spectrum from liquid to liquid, thus leveraging scale, expertise and innovation to serve all client
segments. With that, let me now hand over to Lars, who will walk us through some of the key figures.
Lars, on to you. Thank you, Sandro. Let's move to slide 13 with respect to the numbers underlying this transaction.
And as mentioned by Jean-Laurent, this acquisition will generate over 50 bps to the Group's RoTE in
2028. The transaction itself will have a return on invested capital of over 18% in 2028, and 22% by
2029. How do we get to this return? First, by maintaining strong discipline and efficiency in building
this combined asset management platform at scale as mentioned by Sandro. We will generate 400
million of cost savings, representing approximately 18% of the combined cost base. These cost savings
will be generated as we merge the three asset management platforms – AXA IM, BNP Paribas Asset
Management and BNP Paribas IM – with a streamlined product offering, a single front-to-back system
and a unified workforce.
We will, of course, optimise our organisation, our real estate footprint and our external spending and
leveraging the size of the Group and the scale that we can reach. So we expect to achieve full
realisation of these synergies by 2029, with two thirds by the end of 2027. So that's on the cost. Secondly, we are committed to unlocking the full potential of revenue synergies. We will generate 150
million of these top-line synergies. And they come in two types. First, there is the internalisation of
operations, for example, with a broader use of CIB security services for custodian services across the
platform, or by leveraging the new asset management platform to better serve internal Group clients
like Cardif and Wealth Management and support their growth. Secondly, on the revenues, through an
accelerated commercial development thanks to our competitive offering, as detailed also by Sandro.
Of those revenue synergies, 50% will be activated by 2027 with a full run rate by end 2029. A few
additional elements to understand this full impact: We expect to have 690 million of integration
charges and the majority of this will be booked in 2025 and in particular 2026, with a more limited
part in 2027 and 2028. Finally, as you know, a significant portion of the purchase price comes from
the value of the partnership, and this generates an annual amortisation of the so-called prepaid
expense of around €100 million booked in AXA IM. This integration is a catalyst for our strategic
ambitions and a turning point for IPS, creating a powerful investment platform for the future.
So this is the complementary insights on AXA IM. And let's now go back to the Group results and let
me take you through the operating efficiency that you can see on slide 17. You will note that our costs are up, limited to 1% if you exclude the impact of AXA IM. Our operating
divisions generated positive jaws of two points, with CIB and IPS generating over three points in jaws
and CPBS 0.7 pts as a result of, on the one hand, accelerating NBI, as we mentioned before, and
secondly, reducing the drag from car sales revenues at Arval. With this, I can ask you to go to slide 18, where we show our regular improvement in the cost-income
ratio as we expect to maintain our trajectory in the years to come.
So, this was the cost. Let's now turn to the cost of risk and let's turn to slides 19 and 20. On slide 19, our cost of risk this quarter reached 39 basis points in line with our guidance to be below
the 40 basis points, which is the average of the cycle, and we maintain our guidance for the full year.
Compared with last year, there were fewer releases in the so-called stage one and stage two
provisions, so the cost of risk at Group level, excluding these write backs, is stable. If you look at slide 20, you will see by division that cost of risk is stable or down, including at Personal
Finance in line with our trajectory. Europe-Mediterranean is the exception with the normalisation from a low level of cost of risk last year due to the higher cost of risk in Türkiye on households in the
context of high inflation.
Cost of risk is are also stable at CIB, with global banking close to zero, and we have increased our
provisions in global markets because of a specific file, which happens every so many years and should
not be considered to be recurring. In particular, it is to be considered as a fraud case. And moreover,
it has nothing to do with the private credit environment.
So before I move on to Capital, let me say a word on the Corporate Centre. This quarter, the revenues
were impacted by two elements. On one hand, the impact of DVA generating a €-110 million swing.
And I don't have to remind you that DVA should be zero over the life cycle of the derivatives, but can
be volatile from one quarter to another. The lower rates also weighed on the returns of our equity
being redeployed.
So, with this, let me now conclude on the capital with slide 21. We are pleased to confirm our stable common equity tier one at a solid 12.5% this quarter, highlighting
our capacity to absorb the 35-basis-points impact of the AXA IM acquisition thanks to our capital
generation. We also benefited this quarter from a positive modelling impact, as mentioned by JeanLaurent. And as you can see in the bottom left, in the last four years, we have been significantly
impacted by prudential and supervisory requirements equivalent to 160 basis points over that period
of four years, or 40 basis points – or €3 billion – per year. So what drives this impact? As mentioned,
it's the regulatory and supervisory inflation.
Let me shed some light on this by giving an example. As a reminder, monitoring risk at BNP Paribas is
done in a very detailed manner and it is core to our setup. Doing so allows us to have all the data
available to use advanced models to successfully track evolutions and reflect this in the related riskweighted assets. I don't need to remind you that this advanced modelling is de facto constrained by
the new regulation. Whilst we cannot predict precisely the impact going forward, we expect our
capital generation to be much less constrained in the future, therefore providing us with a lot more
flexibility as you can see with like ten basis points, organic capital creation in a quarter, which is the
typical run we have on a quarterly basis. From now on, one can assume that the growth of our RWAs
will be primarily driven by organic RWA growth, estimated to be less than two per cent per year based
on recent historical trends.
So, we will obviously continue to contain this organic RWA growth as we did in the past. This is a strong
point. And let me illustrate the case of CIB which is particularly telling. So as you know, we have
successfully grown the platform at twice the pace of the market, and we've done so at marginal cost.
So notably, by reducing our cost income from 72% to 60%. At the same time, we've kept organic RWA
growth very well contained, averaging around 0.4% per year over the period 2016 to 2024. So overall,
we are comfortably on track to reach our common equity tier one level of 12.5% post-FRTB in 2027.
From here on, I let you read for yourself slide 25 to 30 on the key elements of the quarter, as well as
the growth drivers of our three operating divisions. With this, I'll hand it back to Jean-Laurent. Thank you, Lars. So, to conclude on slide 32, our third-quarter performance, driven by the acceleration
of our operating divisions, is fully in line with our trajectory. Our priority remains the successful
execution of the AXA IM integration, which represents a strategic transformation lever for the Group
thanks to its integrated model. While our growth drivers are firmly established within CIB and IPS, we
are pursuing disciplined actions to improve the profitability of each business line when needed within
CPBS. This year we started with CPBF and Personal Finance and we are now continuing with CPBB and
Polska. Finally, our core equity tier one ratio of 12.5% provides us with additional flexibility and the
new phase we are entering paves the way for enhanced capital generation. This concludes our
presentation. We will now be happy to take your questions.