Date: 2025-10-28
URL: https://www.hsbc.com/investors/results-and-announcements
Name: HSBC
Quarter: 2025, Q3

Welcome, everyone. Thank you for
joining. We are making positive progress towards creating a simple, more agile, growing HSBC.
The intent and discipline with which we are executing our strategy is reflected in the momentum
this quarter and our target upgrades – most notably, our annualised ROTE of 17.6% year to
date excluding notable items. Throughout this presentation, I’ll focus on year-over-year
comparisons. This will exclude notable items and be on a constant currency basis. The
equivalent comparisons on a reported basis can be found on slides 16 and 22.
Let’s turn straight to the highlights. We reported a strong quarter. Total revenues grew
$500 million to $17.9 billion. Wealth had another good quarter, with 29% growth in fee and
other income. Our customer deposit balances stand at $1.7 trillion. If we include held-for-sale
balances, these grew by $86 billion.
We are also investing for growth. On 9 October, we announced our intention to privatise
Hang Seng Bank. We see this as a compelling opportunity. Let me set out clearly our
reasoning. First, it meets all four of our criteria for acquisitions. Second, we see good growth
in Hong Kong in the years ahead. It’s a business in a home market we know very well. Third,
we see an opportunity to create greater alignment for better operational leverage and
efficiencies. Fourth, we are acquiring a business with structurally high pre-impairment margins
and, while we are not calling the credit cycle, we believe it is a cycle. Fifth, we are removing a
$3 billion capital inefficiency.
This is a transaction which we initiated as a growth investment. It is also a statement of our
confidence in the outlook for Hong Kong. We are in an offer period, so we are unable to give
more details on synergies at this stage. What I will say is that consolidating the non-controlling
interest from the profit and loss increases our profit attributable to ordinary shareholders. We
have also said that we see the potential for additional revenue through expanded capital market
products to Hang Seng commercial clients, and wealth products to its affluent clients, and we
can simplify and streamline decision-making processes, improve operational risk management
and better align operations, which we expect will result in efficiencies. We are confident the
integration will not distract us from organic growth, and it’s more value-generative than a share
buyback.
Turning now to upgrades, we are delivering against the targets we set out to you. We are now
upgrading two items – our 2025 banking NII to $43 billion or better, our 2025 ROTE, excluding
notable items, to be mid-teens or better. We remain disciplined with our shareholders’ capital,
investing it where we see growth, exiting businesses with the intention to redeploy the costs
where we don’t. We are progressing at pace with the exit of non-strategic activities. This
quarter, we have announced the exits of HSBC Malta, and retail banking in Sri Lanka. This
brings our total announced exits to 11 so far this year. Last week, we announced that we are
conducting a strategic review of our Egyptian retail banking business. The review will not
include our wholesale banking activities in Egypt, which remains an important market and one
we believe has strong potential for growth. Finally, we are on track to achieve our target of
around 3% cost growth in 2025 compared to 2024 on a target basis.
Let’s now turn to the firm-wide financial results. First, the income statement. Annualised ROTE
was 16.4% in the third quarter, or 17.6% year to date, both excluding notable items. Revenue
grew 3% year on year to $17.9 billion in the quarter. This was driven by a return to growth in
banking NII and strong fee and other income. Profit before tax was $9.1 billion. Looking at our
capital and distributions, our CET1 capital ratio is 14.5%, and we continue to target a dividend
payout ratio for 2025 of 50% of earnings per ordinary share, excluding material notable items
and related impacts. Let’s now turn to our business segment performance. We grew total revenue by 3%, and each
of our four businesses returned greater than mid-teens annualised ROTE.
Moving now to banking NII, $11 billion this quarter is a return to growth, driven by deposit
volumes. We are raising our full-year guidance to $43 billion or better. I know you’ll have
questions on the outlook, so I’ll note here the multiple drivers of banking NII – HIBOR, which
has recovered; deposit growth, which continues; interest rates, where the Fed is still cutting.
We have grown our structural hedge to $585 billion and it’s rolling on to higher yields. I’ll also
just mention that the chart on the left is on a constant currency basis, while our full-year
guidance is as reported. There is a reconciliation in the footnote.
Turning now to Wholesale Transaction Banking, we are pleased with our strong ongoing
customer engagement. This year has really validated the strength of our franchise in a range
of economic and tariff situations. Both Payments and Trade grew again in the third quarter. In
Trade, I would note the first half was particularly strong as we supported customers to navigate
a fast-changing trade landscape. In Securities Services, fee and other income grew 15%. This
was due to higher asset balances, given improved valuations, and new customer mandates in
Asia and the Middle East. In FX, performance reflects lower currency volatility and a strong
prior-year comparison. Looking through this, performance of $1.3 billion was strong.
Turning now to Wealth, we delivered 29% fee and other income growth to $2.7 billion. This
shows our strategy is working. Net new invested assets were $29 billion, with more than half
coming from Asia, at $15 billion. This takes total invested assets to $1.5 trillion. Wealth was
driven by all four income lines. Our insurance CSM balance is up by $2.5 billion year to date.
This is driven by strong new business. I would note that we reviewed our insurance
assumptions in the third quarter. Favourable experience and strong market performance
slightly flatter these figures. Private Banking grew 8% and Asset Management 6% respectively.
Investment Distribution also performed very well, up 39%, reflecting strength in our customer
franchise in Hong Kong. And Wealth is not just a Hong Kong story. It runs across our Asian
franchise, with double-digit fee and other income growth in Singapore, mainland China and
other markets.
We are providing you with a little extra colour this quarter on our Hong Kong flows on the next
slide. We are pleased to have added 318,000 new-to-bank customers this quarter. This brings
us to more than 900,000 year to date. What this slide shows over a slightly longer period is that
non-resident customers have been a significant driver of customer activity and balances. These
new-to-bank customers have contributed up to a third of flows across deposits, investments
and insurance. We see new non-resident customers as a significant and long-dated opportunity
for the bank.
Now let’s turn to credit. ECL of $1 billion is flat year over year, and down modestly on the
second quarter. We retain our full ECL guidance of around 40 basis points. Our ECL charge
this quarter includes $0.2 billion Hong Kong commercial real estate. On slide 19, you will see
we have updated the Hong Kong commercial real estate slide we showed you at the half-year.
Other charges include $150 million from a Middle East-based customer, $0.3 billion in the UK,
$0.2 billion in Mexico, and a $0.1 billion release due to improved economic assumptions.
Now let’s turn to costs. We remain on track to achieve our target of around 3% cost growth in
2025 compared to 2024 on a target basis. Year to date, we have taken actions to realise
$1 billion of annualised simplification savings, with no meaningful impact on revenues. We
continue to expect $0.4 billion simplification savings to be realised in the full year 2025 P&L.
It’s worth noting that there is some slight seasonality to costs in the fourth quarter, which also
includes the UK bank levy. This quarter, we have $1.4 billion of legal provisions on historical
matters which don’t impact our ongoing business. They consist of $1.1 billion, as you will have
seen in yesterday’s announcement, relating to Madoff litigation, which is a material notable
item and, therefore, does not impact any dividend, and $0.3 billion related to historical trading
activities in Europe, which is a notable item. I would also just draw your attention to appendix
slides 16 and 17, where we detail recent and potential future notable items.
This leads us to our exit of non-strategic activities, which we will discuss on the next slide. We
are progressing at pace with our exit of non-strategic activities. This slide sets out that progress.
The red boxes show the exits announced in each quarter, the grey those in prior quarters.
Given the phasing of the sale processes, only Grupo Galicia is currently complete, with others
to follow. In the third quarter, we have announced Malta, and retail banking in Sri Lanka. Last
week, we announced that we are conducting a strategic review of our Egyptian retail banking business. As I said earlier, the review will not include our wholesale banking activities in Egypt,
which remains an important market. As a reminder, costs released from the exits of our nonstrategic activities will be invested in our priority growth areas at accretive returns.
Now let’s turn to customer deposits and loans. Including held-for-sale balances, we’ve had
another strong quarter, with $86 billion of growth in deposits in the last 12 months. By business,
there is some volatility this quarter. Silver Bond subscriptions in Hong Kong moved deposits
from Hong Kong business to CIB for a few days over quarter-end, benefiting CIB balances. CIB
also benefited from some large client deposits, which may be short-dated. Overall, we see
good momentum in our customer deposit franchise. In the UK, lending was the standout. We
saw continued growth in mortgages and our commercial lending book, infrastructure being a
key area of focus. In our UK business, the book has grown 5% year over year, which includes
a drag from the repayment of Covid loans. We see low levels of household and corporate debt
in the UK, which we expect to provide a platform for the continued growth of our franchise. In
Hong Kong, we saw customer repayments and corporate deleveraging, notably in the
commercial real estate space. Credit demand remains muted.
Now turning to capital, our CET1 is 14.5%, reflecting strong organic capital generation during
the quarter. We said with the announcement of the Hang Seng offer that we do not expect
buybacks for the next three quarters. That is, of course, dependent on underlying capital
generation. With strong profitability and currently modest loan growth, we are highly
capital-generative.
Finally, let’s turn to targets and guidance. In summary, the intent with which we are executing
our strategy is reflected in the growth and momentum in our performance this quarter. It again
shows discipline, performance and delivery.
Discipline in the way we are applying strong cost control. We are on target to achieve our target
of around 3% cost growth in 2025 compared to 2024 on a target basis. Our simplification saves
are ahead of our previous expectation. We have announced 11 exits so far this year. We will
continue to progress at pace and invest costs released from exits into priority growth areas.
Performance in our earnings. Each of our four businesses is making mid-teens ROTE or better,
excluding notable items.
Delivery. Our third quarter results show that we are creating a simple, more agile, growing
HSBC. Revenues grew, and excluding notable items our year-to-date 17.6% ROTE
demonstrates that we are delivering against the targets we set out to you. That is why we
expect 2025 ROTE, excluding notable items, to be mid-teens or better. With that, I am happy
to take your questions. 