Date: 2025-10-30
URL: https://ing.com/investors/financial-performance/quarterly-results/2025
Name: ING
Quarter: 2025, Q3

Good morning and welcome to our results call for 3Q2025. I hope you're all well and thank you for joining us. As usual, I'm
joined by our CRO, Ljiljana Čortan, and our CFO, Tanate Phutrakul.
While macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty remains prevalent, we have again delivered a strong quarter as we
continued to execute our strategy to accelerate growth, increase our impact and deliver customer value. In today's
presentation, I will start by sharing further insights in how our capital allocation will continue to fuel growth and increase
returns. I will also update you on our long-term capital target.
Thereafter, Tanate will walk you through the quarterly fi nancials. As always, we will be happy to take your questions at the end
of the call.
Now, let's move to slide 2. This slide highlights our continued strong commercial momentum in 3Q2025, with solid growth
across key areas. We have added nearly 200,000 mobile primary customers during the quarter, bringing growth in the last 12
months to over 1.1 mln - well ahead of the target set at our Capital Markets Day.
Our loan book expanded signifi cantly in both Retail and Wholesale Banking. Retail Banking saw €8.6 bln in net core lending
growth, driven mainly by residential mortgages. Wholesale Banking also delivered a strong quarter, supported by Trade
Finance Services and Lending, refl ecting increased client fi nancing needs.
Core deposits declined slightly, following substantial infl ows in previous quarters. This was largely due to the conclusion of
promotional campaigns and seasonal spending patterns during the summer in Retail Banking. On the other hand, Wholesale
Banking posted strong infl ows, particularly in Payments and Cash Management, Financial Markets, and cash pooling.
Customer balances grew at an annualised rate of 7% in 9M2025, keeping us well on track to achieve our 4% annual growth
target.
Fee income also continued its upward trend. Year-to-date fees grew by 12%, and we have raised our full-year 2025 growth
outlook to more than 10%.
Our four-quarter rolling average ROE stands at 12.6%, and we have also revised our full-year ROE outlook upwards. Finally, we
remain committed to supporting clients in their sustainability transitions, with sustainable fi nance volumes up 29% compared
to the same period last year.
Now, let's move to the next slide to discuss what this growth means for our capital generation. On slide 3, we show how our
continued commercial growth, further income diversifi cation, and proactive cost measures have delivered strong capital
generation. Over the past four quarters, we have delivered €6 bln of net profi t, which contributed an additional 2%-point to our
CET1 ratio, in line with the 2 prior years. This performance has enabled us to off er an attractive and sustainable dividend, with 
an ordinary cash dividend yield of nearly 6% in the last 12 months. Part of the capital we generated was reinvested to support
profi table growth across both our business lines.
And fi nally, thanks to our strong capital generation, we have been able to announce and execute additional distributions,
amounting to €4.5 bln over the last 12 months and €12.5 bln over the last 3 years.
Moving to slide 4, where we summarise the total distributions to shareholders, building on what I just mentioned. In line with
our policy, we have consistently paid cash dividends and have been executing share buybacks for several years. These actions
have delivered a highly attractive yield - while our share price has risen signifi cantly.
The €2 bln share buyback programme which started in May this year was concluded earlier this week and today we are
announcing an additional €1.6 bln distribution. Of this, €1.1 bln will be returned in the form of a new share buyback, which will
have a lasting positive impact on both earnings and dividends per share. In addition, we will pay a cash dividend of €500 mln in
January 2026, helping us to meet the expected cash hurdle for next year. Looking ahead, we remain committed to delivering
strong shareholder returns and will provide an update with our 1Q2026 results.
Now, let's move to slide 5, where we explain the rationale behind updating our CET1 ratio target. Our expected fully-loaded
CET1 MDA has risen over the years, from 10.5% in 2020 to around 11.2%, primarily due to regulatory changes. Consequently,
we have revised our capital targets and will now manage our CET1 ratio at around 13%.
This target gives us a buff er of about 180 bps above the MDA threshold, which we consider appropriate given the resilience of
our business model and the fact that a signifi cant portion of the MDA - over 1% is attributable to countercyclical buff ers. Any
CET1 capital above 13% will be treated as excess and factored into our future capital planning, as evidenced by the additional
distribution that we announced today.
In the previous slides, I outlined how we have deployed excess and newly generated capital over the past years, delivering
strong shareholder returns. Although we are no longer in a position of excess capital, we remain fi rmly focused on generating
strong capital going forward. Our allocation priorities are well defi ned:
First, we will maintain an attractive shareholder return, supported by our 50% dividend pay-out policy. Second, we will
continue to invest in value accretive growth - further diversifying income streams, expanding the loan book in a capitaleffi cient way, and considering M&A opportunities that meet our strict criteria. These investments will help to accelerate growth
and enhance earnings potential, as the return on new business is higher than the return on a share buyback. Finally, we will
return any capital structurally above our CET1 targets to shareholders.
Moving to slide 8, where we present our improved outlook for 2025. So far this year, we have added nearly 700,000 mobile
primary customers and remain on track to achieve our annual growth target of 1 mln in 2025. We have raised our expectation
for fee growth and now anticipate fees to come in more than 10% higher than last year. As a result, we have also increased our
outlook for total income, which we now expect to reach around €22.8 bln this year.
Prudent expense management remains a key priority. We continue to take proactive measures to operate effi ciently while
selectively investing for growth. Despite additional incidental expenses this quarter, we continue guiding total costs towards
the lower end of the €12.5- €12.7 bln range.
As explained earlier, our CET1 target has been updated to around 13%. Given our improved outlook for income and disciplined
approach on costs, we have also raised our ROE expectations for this year to more than 12.5%. We will share our outlook for
2026 and revisit our 2027 targets with the 4Q2025 results. Now, I'll hand over to Tanate, who will walk you through the 3Q2025
fi nancial results in more detail, starting on slide 10. 
Thank you, Steven. Let’s start with slide 10, which shows the development of total income, which increased further this quarter
and was close to the record level we achieved one year ago.
Commercial NII rose, driven by strong performance in Wholesale Banking Lending and the conclusion of a promotional savings
campaign in Retail Banking Germany. These factors more than off set the impact of lower average ECB deposit facility rates and
a stronger euro.
Fee income continued its upward trend, growing by 15% year-on-year. Most of this growth is structural, which is why we have
raised our full-year 2025 expectation. Finally, all other income, which includes other NII, investment income, and other income, 
was supported by continued strong results in Financial Markets and Treasury, as well as the fi nal dividend payment from Bank
of Beijing.
Let's discuss slide 11, where we show the development of customer balances. We delivered another quarter of strong loan
growth across both Retail and Wholesale Banking. Net core lending increased by €14.2 bln. Retail banking contributed €8.6 bln,
driven by continued growth in mortgages and an increase of the consumer lending portfolio, primarily in Germany, Poland,
and the Netherlands. Wholesale Banking Lending also posted strong growth, as a relatively large number of deals originated in
earlier quarters were converted in 3Q2025.
On the liability side, core deposits declined by around €200 mln after signifi cant infl ows in prior quarters. The decline was
largely attributable to outfl ows in Germany and Belgium after the conclusion of promotional savings campaigns, with part
of these funds moving into investment products. Seasonal eff ects also played a role, as customers spent more during the
summer holiday period. Wholesale Banking posted a strong net infl ow, refl ecting increased deposit volumes in Payment and
Cash Management (PCM), Financial Markets and in our cash pooling business.
On slide 12, you can see that commercial NII grew quarter-on-quarter. The increase was particularly strong in Retail Germany's
liability NII, after the end of bonus rates for fresh money from a promotional campaign. This was also the main driver behind
the 1 bp improvement in the liability margin.
Lending NII also rose, primarily due to robust volume growth in Wholesale Banking Lending. The lending margin remained
stable, as the growth in Wholesale Banking Lending off set the impact of continued growth of our residential mortgage
portfolio, which delivers higher return on equity but lower average margins.
For full-year 2025, our outlook for liability margin and lending margin is unchanged at around 100 bps and around 125
bps respectively. We expect commercial NII to come in between €15.2 and €15.3 bln. It’s worth noting that the higher than
expected NII growth in 3Q2025 was partly driven by a large number of transactions in the Wholesale Bank, which had been in
the pipeline for an extended period.
Turning to slide 13. Fee growth remained strong, with a 15% increase year-on-year, driven by structural revenue drivers
across both Retail and Wholesale Banking. In Retail Banking, growth was supported by the continued rise in mobile primary
customers, which boosted daily banking fees. Investment Products also had a strong quarter, refl ecting an increase in the
number of investment accounts and higher assets under management.
Wholesale Banking delivered a quarterly record of €383 mln in fees, driven by strong performance in Lending, supported by a
greater number of lead roles, increased loan underwriting activity and higher lending volume. Given the strong performance in
9M2025, we are confi dent that we can grow our fee income by more than 10% in 2025.
On slide 14, we show the development of all other income. Income in Financial Markets is mostly driven by client activity. We
continued to support our clients through volatile market conditions, mostly with FX and interest rate management. Income
from our fi nancial stakes included a fi nal dividend from our stake in Bank of Beijing, while other income also benefi ted from a
gain on the sale of an associate company in Belgium.
Next, slide 15. Our expenses, excluding regulatory costs and incidental items, rose less than 3% year-on-year, refl ecting
our prudent approach. The increase was largely refl ecting wage infl ation and our ongoing investments in business growth
and scalability. On the growth side, we continued investing in our customer acquisition and product development, including
expanding our off ering for new customer segments. Another good example is Business Banking, where we broadened our
product suite and made it easier to digitally on-board customers. In terms of scalability, we focused on enhancing and
strengthening our Tech platform. At the same time, we're seeing benefi ts from operational effi ciencies, which helped off set
part of the cost increase. We remain committed to digitising our services to further strengthen our operational leverage going
forward.
We are actively integrating GenAI capabilities through our organisation. Our GenAI chatbot is now live in 6 markets, providing
improved customer support. And in consumer fi nance, we use AI to assess applicants and process loan applications
automatically. Incidental expenses mostly related to restructuring provisions for planned FTE reductions in Retail Banking,
which are expected to result in ~€30 mln in annualised cost savings once fully implemented.
We still expect total expenses to fi nish at the lower end of the previously guided range. This outlook includes incidental items
recorded in 9M2025, whereby continued focus on operational effi ciencies will lead to some incidental costs in 4Q2025.
Now let's move to risk costs on the next slide. Total risk costs were €326 mln this quarter, equivalent to 19 bps of average
customer lending, which is below our through-the-cycle average and a refl ection of the quality of our loan book. Net additions
to Stage 3 provisions amounted to €361 mln, mainly due to collective provisioning in Retail Banking and a number of newly
defaulted fi les in Wholesale Banking. The Stage 3 ratio remained stable. Stage 1 and Stage 2 risk costs showed a net release of
€35 mln, mostly refl ecting portfolio movements. Overall, we remain confi dent in the strength and quality of our loan book.
On slide 17, we show the development of our CET1 ratio, which increased compared to last quarter. CET1 capital increased
on the back of strong capital generation, partly off set by dividend reserving and a lower market value of our stake in Bank of
Beijing. Total risk-weighted assets remained broadly stable. Credit risk-weighted assets, excluding FX impacts, increased by
€2.2 bln this quarter, mainly due to volume growth. This was partly off set by a change in the profi le of the loan book, equity
revaluations and various other eff ects.
Operational risk-weighted assets remained fl at, while market risk-weighted assets decreased by €1.7 bln. The announced
additional distribution of €1.6 bln will have a pro forma impact of 48 bps on the CET1 ratio, bringing it more in line with our
updated target.
Now, I'll hand back to Steven to wrap up today's presentation.
Thanks, Tanate. Before we move to Q&A, let me recap the key takeaways from today's presentation. We delivered another
strong quarter, maintaining solid commercial momentum that is fully aligned with our growth strategy. This sustained
performance translated into robust capital generation, enabling attractive shareholder returns while continuing to selectively
invest in our business.
Today, we announced a €1.6 bln distribution, bringing our CET1 ratio in line with our updated target. Going forward, we remain
committed to deploying capital to fuel growth and further enhance returns. And fi nally, we have improved our outlook for
2025 - expecting higher fees, stronger total income, and a return on equity above 12.5%.
With that, I would like to open the fl oor for Q&A. Operator, over to you.