Source: Reuters
Title: Commerzbank to cut 3,900 mostly German jobs as it tries to head off UniCredit
Date: 2025-2-13
URL: https://www.reuters.com/business/finance/commerzbank-cut-3900-jobs-mainly-germany-2025-02-13/
FRANKFURT, Feb 13 (Reuters) - Commerzbank (CBKG.DE), opens new tab plans to axe 3,900 mostly local jobs to help it deliver more ambitious profit targets as part of its strategy to fend off UniCredit's (CRDI.MI), opens new tab advances for a tie-up between the German and Italian lenders, it said on Thursday.
The job cuts are expected to take place by 2028 but will be accompanied by hiring outside Germany, meaning full-time positions will remain steady at 36,700, the bank said.
For months, Commerzbank's management, under the leadership of CEO Bettina Orlopp, has been working on a plan she has said would reveal the "significant value potential" of the bank.
The battle for Commerzbank, pitting one of Italy's biggest banks against the German establishment, has become a test case of the country's ability to fend off foreign suitors and prevent its financial centre from losing one of its few remaining big commercial banks.
Commerzbank, the nation's No. 2 bank, is hoping that a raft of targets unveiled on Thursday will convince its investors that it can thrive as an independent company.
Deutsche Bank analysts called the new guidance "bullish". RBC described the new goals as "punchy".
Commerzbank, which is partly state-owned and has labelled UniCredit's moves as hostile, said it would incur 700 million euros ($730 million) in restructuring charges in 2025.
The bank raised some of its 2027 targets.
It is now aiming for net profit of 3.8 billion euros in 2027, up from a previous goal of 3.6 billion euros. In addition, it is now aiming for a cost-to-income ratio of 53% in 2027, down from 54%.
The bank's shares were up 1.8% mid-afternoon, after gaining nearly 50% in the months since UniCredit expressed its interest.
Commerzbank's strategy update follows a better-than-expected 20% increase in full-year net profit, a result the bank believes illustrates the success of its turnaround in recent years.
"Now it's about lifting Commerzbank to the next level," Orlopp said.
Andrea Orcel, the CEO of UniCredit, shocked Germany's corporate and political establishment last year when his Italian bank - also that nation's No. 2 - snapped up a hefty stake in Commerzbank and began pressing for a tie-up in the most ambitious attempt yet at a pan-European bank merger.
Commerzbank's job cuts will come through natural fluctuations and early retirements, the bank said on Thursday. Hiring will take place in Poland and nearby cheaper locations.
Despite the cuts, the Verdi labour union voiced support for the plan, saying it rejected UniCredit's overtures and its "slash and burn 'made in Milan'" strategy which it fears would lead to even greater job losses.
UniCredit didn't respond to a request for comment.
UniCredit's Orcel, who has long considered a tie-up with Commerzbank, has said a combination between the two banks would be the best possible outcome, opens new tab, and said any offer could still be months away. He has not ruled out walking away.
Commerzbank's management, employees and the nation's chancellor, Olaf Scholz, have all spoken against a potential takeover, but at least one big investor and some business leaders favour talks.
Political defiance remains strong. Boris Rhein, the premier of Commerzbank's home state of Hesse, told a gathering of Germany's financial elite on Monday that UniCredit needed to give up.
"Nobody wants what you are doing. Withdraw!" Rhein said.
($1 = 0.9584 euros)