Source: Unie
Title: ING Group: Major reorganization in the Netherlands?
Date: 2025-10-20
URL: https://unie.nl/en/jouw-cao-en-branche/ing-group-major-reorganization-netherlands
In October, the following topics were discussed in various meetings:

Announcement of collective dismissal
32-hour working week
Mid Year score SUPM
The learning account
Job Security Commission
Pension developments
 

ING announces possible layoffs
ING has announced that approximately 950 jobs are at risk through December 2026. Every two years, ING submits a so-called WMCO notification (Collective Redundancy Notification Act). In this notification, ING provides a rough estimate of the expected changes in the coming period (the recently published requests for advice are also included in the figures for this WMCO notification). The previous WMCO notification announced a reduction of 850 FTEs, which ultimately resulted in a layoff of 250 FTEs. Subsequently, the number of employees increased by 1000 FTEs. In other words, the current WMCO notification does not mean that 950 employees will be laid off; many employees will be able to find new positions within ING. However, it does mean that a turbulent period is approaching for many employees. ING substantiates the expected staff reduction by citing digitalization, centralization, and efficiency through the use of AI. In the upcoming requests for advice, ING must demonstrate that positions will actually be eliminated.

Please contact De Unie
Are you involved in a reorganization, or are you becoming mobile as a preventative measure? Then contact our advocate, Inge de Vries, via inge.de.vries@unie.nl. De Unie can help you with information, explanations about the social plan, and other reorganizations at ING, and your information can be important to help as many members as possible.

You can contact the Service Center of De UnieTo have your VSO checked, or if you need legal support because ING has not met its obligations under the social plan, you can contact the Service Center by sending an email to: sc@unie.nl or by telephone: 0345-851 963

Retirement
In 2024, the social partners (ING, De Unie and other trade unions) drew up a transition plan after lengthy negotiations. This transition plan was drawn up by the members of De Unie It was subsequently submitted by the social partners to the boards of both pension funds. To date, neither board has accepted the transition plan. The social partners are in discussions with the pension fund boards. Should this unexpectedly lead to a substantive change to the transition plan, De Unie to resubmit this to the members.

The advocate would like to update interested members on the topics being discussed in relation to the transition plan. She would like to do this on Friday, October 31, 2025 at 12:00 noon. You can simply register and subscribe your here. free register until Wednesday, October 29th.

Periodic consultation October 4
32-hour working week

At the suggestion of one of the other unions, a study was conducted on the effects of a 32-hour workweek. This study inventoried the experiences outside ING with the introduction of a shorter workweek. The study has, in some respects, De Unie Concerning this, no convincing results have been produced. The companies that have introduced a 32-hour workweek are not comparable to ING. The assumption behind a 32-hour workweek is that employees will have more free time because they will be working four days a week. However, at ING, many employees already work four days a week in a 4x9-hour rhythm. A second assumption is that the shorter workweek will not negatively impact ING's salary levels in the future. De Unie has concerns about this; it's not possible to legally document this. We also lack insight into the consequences for individual employees' workloads if they reduce their hours. ING is currently considering a response regarding the 32-hour workweek.

Mid-Year Performance Management Score Evaluation

ING has provided insight into the interim evaluation that will be held mid-year.

The interim evaluation for the first half of 2025 does not differ significantly from the interim evaluation of previous years.

Update The Learning Account

Part of the collective labor agreement is a joint committee that will improve the training offering (including the learning account). Now that ING is undergoing so many reorganizations, it is even more important that the training offering is in order. presentation read about the improvements that have been made to the learning account.

Job Security Commission

The Job Security Committee monitors (following employee complaints) whether ING is implementing the social plan correctly. Cases in which the Job Security Committee rules in the employee's favor can be discussed anonymously during regular meetings. We evaluate what needs to be improved in ING's procedures to prevent the same mistake from happening again.

Do you disagree with the way ING is implementing the social plan? Then please contact the Service Center of De UnieA lawyer of De Unie will then discuss with you whether submitting your complaint to the Employment Security Committee would be beneficial in your situation. The lawyer can also help you draft an appeal.